# BanglaNet-for-Bangla-Handwritten-Characters-and-Numerals-Recognition
B anglaNet is developed to recognize bangla handwritten basic characters and numerals. Bangla handwritten characters and numerals recognition is one the most interesting issues in present time due to its various applications and usage in digitization techniques. BanglaNet is a simple, lightweight convolutional Neural Network Model for classifying Bangla Handwritten Characters which contains 50 basic characters(11 vowels and 39 consonants) and 10 numerals. Bengali also known by its endonym Bangla, is an Indo-Aryan language primarily spoken by the Bengalis in Bangladesh and the Indian states of West Bengal, Tripura, Assam’s Barak Valley. It is the official and most widely spoken language of Bangladesh and second most widely spoken of the 22 scheduled languages of India. With approximately 250 million native speakers and another 37 million as second language speakers, Bengali is the fifth most-spoken native language and the seventh most spoken language by total number of speakers in the world. The task of recognizing Bangla handwritten characters and numerals is simple yet challenging because of its alignment and similarity. One of the most common reason of facing challenge in handwritten recognition research is because of the unique style to writing, different shapes and sizes. Moreover, automatic handwritten recognition is one of the most important research fields in recent years for its different applications such as OCR which helps to recognize the characters from images.
